# Calculator Web App
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/PgKVQrrRZ-E
#### Description: For CS50's final project, I decided to build a calculator web application utilising HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I used BootStrap CSS in my final project as well as I found it a great tool for making the website responsive since its usage is allowed. My project is a very simple calculator app that handles the four arithmetic operations, addition, subtraction, division and multiplication. A user can enter a first number which will be displayed in the input field, by clicking on one button or multiple number buttons to choose a number. The user can then click on one of the four operation buttons(+, -, *, /) to perform an operation on the first number with a second number that is entered similarly. When the second number has been entered, the user can click on the '=' sign to see the result of the operation on the two numbers chosen. The project also handles decimal numbers so the user can choose to click on the decimal button '.' to enter a decimal, the operations function as per normal. There is also a clear button that cleans the input field and whatever it was previously displaying.
####

# The files used in my project:
## index.html
#### The index.html file firstly contains two links in the header tag, one to reference Bootstrap and another to reference my custom CSS in styles.css which will be explained further below. The purpose of ``<meta charset="UTF-8"> `` included in line 6 is to set the character encoding for the webpage to UTF-8. This is a good practice as it helps ensure that all characters are displayed correctly on the webpage. In the body tag, the container class from Bootstrap is used to serve as the model of the calculator. It includes an input field which is set to read-only such that the user is unable to type anything into the display. Following that is the buttons which are arranged in columns, inside the parent tag which is the div class="row", which contains horizontal groups of columns. Each button is tagged to either a number, operation or serves as the clear, decimal or equal button. ``<div class="row">>`` is thus used 5 times in designing the UI for the calculator app. Below the body tag is the ``<script>`` tag which links the javascript used for the interactivity of the web app which will be explained below. That is all for the html file of my final project.

## styles.css
#### styles.css is a custom css file that I used together with Bootstrap to handle the aesthetics and design of the webapp. I mainly did some minor touch ups on the css from Bootstrap such as spacing the buttons further apart by changing the margins between them, changing some of the colours of the buttons where each colour corresponds to the purpose of the button in question. I also centred the container in the middle of the page and changed its colour to black for a minimalistic look. The buttons from bootstrap were also lengthened to improve their aesthetics.

## calculator.js
#### Last but not least, calculator.js contains the javascript that I used for my final project. When a number button is clicked, the number will be displayed in the input field, similarly, more numbers can be entered and can continue to do so until an operation button is clicked. The javascript handles the case of dividing by zero by checking whether the second number, the divisor, is 0 and the operation of choice is division. If so, the input field will simply display 'Division By Zero'. In addition, if either the first number or second number have not been entered yet upon clicking the equals sign, the program will simply clear whatever is displayed. 
